# Commands

This document provides an overview of the commands available in the Steel toolchain CLI.

## Available Commands

### `steelc --help`
Displays help information about the steelc command line tool.

### `steelc --version`
Displays the current version of the steelc compilation tool.

### `steelc build <stproj-file | project-folder>`
Builds the project located at the specified path. You can provide either a `.stproj` file or a project folder containing a `.stproj` file.
#### Build Command Options
- `--no-link`: Skips the linking step after building, leaving only the generated IR files.
- `--all`: Compiles all source files (disables incremental building).
- `--backend <backend>`: Specifies the backend to use for code generation. Currently only 'llvm' is supported (and is default).
- `--ir-format <format>`: Specifies the format of IR generated by the backend (if any). Currently supports 'llvm-bc' (default) and 'llvm-asm'.
- `--target <target-triple>`: Specifies the target triple for code generation and/or linking. By default it uses the host target triple.
- `--out <output-dir>`: Overrides the default output (build) directory (usually `/build/`).
- `--int <intermediate-dir>`: Overrides the default intermediate directory (usually `/build/intermediate/`).

### `steelc project new <project-name>`
Creates a new project structure in the current directory with the specified name.

## Global flags

These flags can be used with any command:
- `--verbose`: Enables verbose output.
